"How is your knee now after over a year?
ACL & LCL Ligament repairs left knee April 2016
TKR Nov 2014 right knee
Hope this helps you and anybody else in pain.
Sleep deprivation is a major downside of recovery. Sometimes your Dr may prescribe something to help you sleep or you could try Kalms herbal tablets.
Its important to do the exercises the physio told you.
Keep your leg up as much as possible, with icing, take pain killing meds every 4 hrs.
Recovery after TKR can take between 6 months to 2 years.
Please ring the ward you was on or your Dr's surgery for info about meds.
just take it easy first of all sounds as though your going at a thousand miles an hour exersie when you can little steps dont overdo it listen to your body rest whe you can give yourself time this is a marathon not a sprint you will see improvements as the weeks go by.
I'm not superman just dertimied ??????
Talk to you again soon!😊
"Would LOVE hearing how you are doing as you progress through the healing process!😊
You are still very early in the game. Focus on small improvements rather than ""SHOULD"" be able to --------. Be patient with yourself , and get as much rest as you can. Rest HEALS, and rest provides a more positive outlook!
Swelling is very common, and ice doesn't always help lessen it unfortunately. Try thigh-high compression stockings and elevating your leg (use a looped belt over your foot to help lift the leg) higher than your heart.
The body has been through A LOT. Healing takes awhile because there is a great deal cut and moved and glued and sewn and traumatized during surgery.
"Yes, it DOES get better!😊
"As I suggested above - what were you like for range of movement say a year before the operation. Could you do 118 deg then?
Good luck with your knees and best wishes,
All of this is critical really. It would appear that some are relatively young and had the op because of pain to others who were older and effectively crippled with twisted distorted legs (me!). The expectations will probably be different in each case.
3. Most people are not giving their age and what the reason was for their op and what their range of movement etc was before.
2. Different things work for some but not for others
1. Each one of us is completely different
"There is some very good advice on this thread but there is one very clear conclusion which should be heeded.
"Have you used a different lotion or soap?
Please let us know how things go!
Check with your doctor if your answers to these are ""Yes"".
Do you have a fever?
Are the bumps on your incision itchy?
Try wearing compression hose on both legs ( thigh high). Try laying on your bed with both legs stretched up the headboard of your bed. (Use a looped belt to help elevate them to the position.) If you can, try Ibuprofen. It does an AWESOME job in my opinion of lessening swelling.
We take our chances with each surgery, but in the end each surgery is different even though they are on our same body.
"Expect pain for at least 4 weeks. Bad pain. Then, it just starts to get better and by about 6-7 weeks, almost zero pain.
"Sorry Ann, I guess I had you sorted as the newest first
ask your doctor for something stronger than paracetamol if you are struggling with pain.
"Hi Pam, chin up, its early days yet. I think you can drive after 6 weeks, depending what your consultant/physio says.
"I had tkr on the 2 1 2016 and reading as many comments as I can it appears we all agree broadly on all the problems ie pain,heat in the joint, transferred pain to the shin and thigh, clicking and clunking in the joint and the overall pain and discomfort.
Promise it will get better. We all did this for the ulitmate outcome and that is to get back to healthy living and you will
Congratulations on your determination! You will succeed with whatever you do, I can just tell! Good attitude with a lot of persistence goes a long way to create successful outcomes. Thank you for inspiring us all to hang in there!
i wish you all a speedy recovery but what will be, will be.
Best to you as you recover and prepare for #2!!
You will do fine with your second replacement and may find it goes easier because you will know what to expect.
"You are doing great! Glad that the PAIN meds help.
It will come! Encourage him to be patient! Please update us from time to time on his progress!
Swelling has a lot to do with success of movement. Be sure your husband ices his knee top and bottom frequently throughout the day. This helps. Also, sitting back in a hard chair with arms provides better support as he is trying to effect good movement.
Keep up with the exercises, good luck
I just wanted to post this for everyone going through a tough time that there is light at the end of the tunnel and it will just keep getting better and better as you go along, it will just take time. Best of luck to you all!
Now to catch up on my past history!
"My original response went to moderation because I included a web site link, so following is a copy without the direct link in case the original gets bounced.
Can I ask where you had the operation?
"Hi there. Your TKR sounds really interesting and you're doing so well!
"Hi Sally thanks for info I will look into one of those. How long is it since you had you surgery?
i hope it's a pain free one for all of us on this Forum
"Happy New Year to you too
make sure you take your meds regularly and ice frequently too
the first few weeks are a roller coaster
it's not nice but then something else takes your mind off it
i think most of us experienced that in the early days.
I wonder if anyone/hospital gave you any information or idea of what to expect after the op?
I would certainly mention the deep pain/ache in your leg to GP/Hosp just to rule out any problem.
Are you doing leg exercises? use Ice pack or peas (can burn skin) wrap in a tea towel. Use after exercises it will take the swelling down and feels good.
GO AND ASK ABOUT THE PAIN IN YOUR LEG
Thank you for your wonderful response to your experience during this long and sometimes painful process.
I know how hard it is. I am glad that you can do most of the exercises.
Haha! Yeah it REALLY sucks not having any strength in you leg.
Just keep trying. It will come. Guaranteed.
Clicking is not something to worry about and will fade with time.
My advice is EXERCISE, EXERCISE AND EXERCISE. Work through the pain, use an ice machine after working out for 15 minutes.
Hope all went well for you !!!
How much could you bend your knee before the operation?
A TKR is one of the most painful surgeries a person can have. All of us feel bad about your pain and can empathise with you too. Do you have someone to help you? Don't hesitate to call the district nurses or NHS 24 if you need them out of hours. They are fantastic people and they are there to help you. I've had to call them several times, now. Use lots of ice to get the swelling down and although it seems trivial, wiggle your toes often and do your exercises when you can. I'm not a person who cries much but I've done a lot of crying with this one. If you can't sleep at night try to rest during the day if you can. Keep posting and tell us how you're doing as the days go by. Little improvements make us all happy. We wish you well. An NHS 24 doctor got my pain under control and I am extremely grateful to him.
Start by using the foot on your good leg to help lift the bad leg. Bend your ankles back on both legs 20 times an hour. It will come around.
You have to get up and walk. The pain becomes less with more movement. Every day you don't move makes it much worse in the long run.
Don't get discouraged. I was finally able to lift my leg 15 days after surgery. Your body is trying to heal from very painful surgery. All of us are different and we are not in a contest. There needs to be a balance between pain meds, ice, rest, ice, exercise, ice, etc. I wish you the best.
good luck to you ! keep up with the excercises and ice , elevate and walk !!!!
What is manipulation surgery?
Make sure you don't get stomach issues with the Diclofenac.
Taking a good multivitamin that has 100% of the daily recommended dose of iron also helps with being more energetic instead of tired.
Be sure to keep hydrated. Also 2000 mg. of Omega 3 (fish oil gels) help with the joints.
Be patient. Around six weeks I think you will find that everything starts to get easier.
Rest when you can, and do good breathing in and out to get oxygen to your body. When we are in pain we tend to breathe in a very shallow way.
Best wishes to you as you continue your recovery!
Hi Cheryl, thanks for the tips, I will try all you have suggested, nice to have support x
You learn a lot if you listen to your body. A lot of the time that's hard to do because we humans are REALLY IMPATIENT and want results and improvements IMMEDIATELY!
I am learning to accept that some days will be better than others, flexibility will vary, swelling comes for no apparent reason and often leaves for no apparent reason as well, and some days I have oodles of energy while on other days I am a LAZY LUCY.
Good luck to you with your recovery!
Watch when they remove each staple. Make sure no skin is pinched in the puller!
I had a quick recovery in regard to movement, I was at 120 degrees by 6 weeks post surgery, however, I have a terrible problem with severe swelling. Went for an ultrasound and no blood clots thank goodness, just it looks twice the size of my other leg. It's also very stiff, but the more I walk and do my exercises the better it feels, until it swells again. Elevation and lots of ice for me. I thought by 14 weeks I would be as good as new, but I'm told I could have stiffness and swelling for 12 months! Glad I had it done, but if the other knee needs replacing, I'll really have to be in agony before doing this again.
Just need to ask about were to put ice on sides I no but is it alright to put it over the staples as well x