"I was shocked to see the change in the operated knee after the dressing came off. Is this because the knee is getting some air. It feels more uncomfortable as well.
"I have a continual, deep pain/ache in practically the whole of my leg. I use ice on it (frozen peas!) a great deal of the time and I take my pain killers. At night I cannot sleep because there is nowhere New I can put my leg which does not become become equally painful within a few seconds. Anybody else have this problem? Also, I had to stop taking Diclofenac a few days before the op. How long before I can take it again?
"I'm 6 weeks after my op .During the night I place a cushion between my knees and have an ice pack and take my meds . it's not easy but you will get there in the end.wish you good luck
All i can say is dont force your knee to do what is not comfortable, do things at you own pace but you must bend it just a little more every day and if there is any abnormal swelling or pain see your GP asap. Your next big pain in the butt is still to come. The wife and i love traveling and man going through security points is such a pain nowadays and not even your doctors letter or the scar is going to stop them frisking you every time.
My recommendation to you is to as much as you feel comfortable with and no more putting in just a little more effort every day. In the evening i would have a shower just before bed time and heat my knee up with the hot water, i would then sit on the edge of my bed with your foot on the floor and your knee bent to its max then keeping your feet on the floor slowly move your body forward thus bending your knee to a greater angle till you cannot take the pain anylonger but you must hold it there for at least 5 min, i know its painful but you will find the pain will start to faid as you get used to that pain. I also went for physio every day which did help but you can get away with it by rubbing voltaren in yourself from thigh down to ankle and i mean a good rub. I was off all meds by 6 weeks but at 12 weeks i was walking and felt a hooking sensation with a loud crack and unbelievable pain and that was the start to the pain i live with day to day.
"Hi Guys, i had my total knee replacement on the 16 May 2016 and im still in pain. I have been put in the 1 in 50 failed joint replacement and i am certain it was due to the pressure put on you to bend your knee as much as possible in the shortest period of time. If you have any sort of swelling after the op and abnormally high amount of pain go see you GP asap. I got a bad infection 3 weeks after surgery.The sleeping part is the pain in the butt part. What i found the best but dont recommend it is i took double the pain meds before i went to sleep and that would knock me out for a good part of the evening.
For anyone interested, I have the Conformis custom fit TKR.
This past season was my first time back. I skied 6 days in a row without ANY pain whatsoever. As a matter of fact my real knee hurt and was slightly swollen, but my new knee was never stiff or swollen in anyway shape or form! While skiing I ended up thinking of my real knee more than my artificial one!!!
"I had my surgery two years ago tomorrow! Other than the first 4 weeks of what I would call agony, the knee is great. I had 5º to 105º before the surgery. From the beginning I had great flexibility. Within a week I had improved to 0º and 120º and now somewhere over 140º! Other than the home PT for the first 2 weeks, I saw my PT a total of 3 times! I asked why and he said I had already met all expected goals so there was no need for any PT. At my 6 week post op meeting with my surgeon, he said see you next year, but the only thing he wanted to know was how my knee did back my first day skiing!
"My bones ached and knee pain was terrible. I still do t sleep well at night due to pain. I thought the pain would be gone once the old knees were gone but that hasn't been the case. This is just the most painful and brutal thing we can do to our bodies, as far as surgery is concerned. Time is our friend! I have every faith that it will get better.
"Just nap and rest when your knee tells you too. I will be 3 weeks on Tuesday and some days better than others. Still can't be up for long periods with out knee talking to me.
"Hi im 6 days post op and know exactly what you mean. I cant take diclofenic so using dihydracodeiene someone has said it does get easier so hang in there. No consolation i know at 2am and not slept
"I know your pain. I had finger bruises on my thighs. I think they have to hold the leg /ankle so hard to get the replacement on but it should heal. This certainly wasn't the journey that I expected but I am told that it does get better. I never went to rehab because I heard such terrible things and I had been in pain for so many years that I thought I might just punch someone if they inflicted pain on me so I chose do do it myself. My Dr. Told me that if I did my 2 exercises I would be good. I really worked at It, in my time and I have pretty good range of motion. I used a Jacuzzi to help bend my knee, with good results. I am 3 months out from a double knee replacement and I am not pain free by any means. For me, I did what I could and my Rom came back. I have lots of swelling and pain. I also have a clicking sound when I walk. Bummer. Don't despair. Rest and elevate and listening ur own body. Everyone recovers differently. Take this time to just rest ur body. I believe it just takes time.
"Kim, I know just keep your knee moving. Rest and ice and elevate. I am going to look into a natural path to help with all the aches I get. I know each day and week will be different.
"I'm about 3wks out still can't comfortable,and my hip ,and lower back hurts now outside pt or horrible really hard & painful ,and my doctor only gives meds 3wks out of surgery. I started pt outside super painful .I went through alot at surgery I had caught the flu was sick the day I was released,during surgery the doctor did something to my ankle I had finger prints(bruising) on my ankle,calf.no other bruising so I couldn't step on my ankle for about a week in half . Now I can't bend only to 90 now he said I'm back to 80 and now he's focused on straightening still can't get comfortable it's like a dead leg know how you feel
"I also get a continuous deep muscle cramp starting from my butt cheek going all the way down my back leg. A muscle relaxant does help but I think it is the way we are compensating when we are walking.
"I had my 2nd tkr (left) two weeks ago today. My right leg tkr surgery was 11 months ago. it is wonderful! This time around is a little different more pain and swelling. I know how much better it will be so I work thru the pain. Both surgeries were outpatient. Had nerve block which controlled pain for first 48 hrs. 1000mg Tylenol and 800mg Advil taken at the same time every 8 hours -oxy when needed. Stopped oxy after 4 days. Staples pinched when removed but relief after! I start outpatient therapy today. I can bend to 90 and straighten -5. My confidence is getting better, my mind tells me to limp but I don't have too. Elevate, ice and move around every hour. Stay positive it only gets better!
I do hope I can get my proper life back the way it used to be before the ladder fall.
I did sleep ok in early days because I took strong painkillers. I came off those the second month end. Now on nothing.
I had a total knee replacement 6 months ago. I fell off a ladder into a laminate floor 7 years ago which caused one knee to deteriorate. I'm only 57. I was driving a 4 x 4 and returned to office work after 2.5 weeks. I'm self employed so had little choice. I was on one crutch after one week. However 6 months later I still have pain, limp a lot when I first move then it eases off but there's still a limp. I used to wear 4 inch heels but obviously can't now. Wearing Sketchers is easier but I have to wear heels for work so I can manage 1.5 inch ok for now. I'm hoping that in another 6 months I'm fully recovered. My knee will bend to 95° only but I'm way off straightening it. I'm getting private sports remedial massage to help but progress us slow. I can walk my dogs for 1.5 miles but only with resting on benches. I'm very disappointed but I live in hope it will recover.
"Ann02425. This seems.to be a fairly common experience. I am now 4 weeks post op and still waking at least once a night in pain. However it is much better that it was three weeks ago and I can now get comfortable in bed. For now nap when and where you can. Are you on any pain relief at all? Ask your doctor about the Dicofenac
"Still early mate, dont push it. Found ice packs hurt more than did good. Found the best was in the evening during your shower i let the hot water run on my knee till it was real hot. After you get out the shower sit on your bed with feet on the floor and knee bent as much as you can. Keep your feet flat on the floor and move your body forward till your knee cant take the pain anylonger. Hold it there and you will get used to the pain. Hold it like that for as long as possible and rub your knee with something like voltaren. Worked for me. Was bending my knee to 180 after 8 weeks.
I'm 4 weeks in too and struggling to get past 70 degree flexion, went to physio yesterday,she is concerned too. I think we are being too hard on ourselves at this early stage, my swelling and pain is really impeading any profess. I'm anxious though, we are bombarded with info regarding recovery milestones, this surgery has been horrific , trying to remain positive, my thoughts are with you hang in there.😃
"Hi Johnny- thanks for the advice , maybe l am expecting too much so soon after the operation
"I had a TKR 4 weeks ago - pain has got a bit easier but l am really struggling to bend the knee or complete my exercises - concerned that l will not be able to bend
"My knee surgery was 14 days ago. I had stayed in the hospital 2 nights. I was not ready to go home after my first night do to my pain med was not working. Once they found what meds I need to go home with . The next day I went home. My pain was mostly in the whole leg. I felt the pain mostly on the back side. I took my pain med every 4 hr and iced the swelling constantly. I could only sleep on my recliner with my leg up on a pillow. My pain was always worst after therapy. It like they had me do things with that knee that I was not prepared for. The therapy had started 3 days after the operation. I do some exercises at home to stench the knee. I still have pain in my leg and not taking my meds as often. I had started walking with a Cain after nine days of the surgery date. The leg is stiff and takes a while to loosen it up. I can not sit in a chair for any length of time. I believe this pain will slowly subside in do time . Every body different into how the healing process goes. I was told that every day gets better.
Having staples out on 5th oct , Physio on 6th I'll keep you posted
After many visits 2 my GP , I decided 2 go privately 4 a MRI scan which showed I had bad osteoarthritis!! I then paid 4 a private consultation within 1 hr I had been given a x ray , cortisone injection ( which is still working now 2 yrs later) on a visit back my consultant noticed that my other knee was inflamed and gave me a number of cortisone injections which did nothing he then advised me 2 have a arthroscopic op to acertaiin course of action key hole very painful 🙈🙈 he carried out a debridement and told me I needed a total knee 🙈🙈???? I have finally had it and am only 1 wk on I have looked on many websites some good and some bad but the only thing I have gleened is that it's the No Pain No gain sernario I am off my strong painkillers and sleeping ok u must push yourself and i ice every 20 mins including nightime ps forgot 2 say leading up 2 my op i cycled on my exercise bike 20 mins everyday
I had a TKR 1 wk ago I am 57 and play golf approximately 4 times per wk in my previous life I was involved in motorsport which included spending a great deal of time on my knees , after taking up golf I started getting knee problems and had a bakers cyst on my left a
I keep thinking I'm not making enough progress so this forum is helping me to realise I'm not alone.and reassures me that I'm doing OK for this early in the recovery process. Good luck with your recovery.
"Hi I have the same. I'm 10 days post op. It's a deep nagging ache all along the outside of my leg from ankle to groin. It keeps me awake at night. I get very sore pain on the inside of my knee and other various pains from sharp stabbing ones to what feels like something stinging. It also aches behind my knee a lot. I'm icing my knee regularly and trying to do the exercises, but no way can I raise my leg off the bed. I've been pottering about on crutches and going up and down stairs ok. I even managed a very quick shower the past two days, but it's quite unnerving with nothing to hold on to! I'm on my own in the day time as my husband is at work, so I have to be independent.
"Thank you Cheryl i felt a lot better after finding this site last night its so often the case that the Internet comes to your assistance i have took on board everything you have said and look forward to getting strong again i think i have been lucky that i dont think I have as much pain as others the surgeon who did it is very good he uses the aid of a computer to align the knee but after that i was struggling until i found the good advice here i will be watching for any more tips thanks once again for your help.
Come here often. You will learn so much! I know I did early on, and I am STILL getting tips from those who are further along in the process. For me this site provided me with friends around the world who KNEW what I was going through and truly could sympathize as well as provide ideas to try. That has been priceless!💟
Gentle squats while holding onto the kitchen counter are VERY GOOD thigh strengtheners. I continue to do them even now, a year after my surgeries, to keep my thigh muscles strong.
I don't know if you are a believer, but if you are, PRAYER certainly helps and is my main method for remaining calm during this whole process of healing and getting back to feeling good again.
You MAY notice the old ""three steps forward and two steps back"" method of progress. I know I did. No matter. Just keep believing in yourself! 🙌😊😁🙌 Keep as positive as you can. Positive feelings create endorphins which actually help with any pain you may have. LAUGH at every chance you can. I watched funny movies like ""Animal House"" with John Belushi and the ""National Lampoon Vacation"" movies with Chevy Chase to get me refocused on laughing and NOT worry or feelings of ""poor me"".
"Hi Cheryl and thanks for your reply everything you have been through i am going through now the surgery its self is a great thing i dont know if its just in my case but i have found the aftercare is non existent i was lucky that a colleague knew about the belt routine and gave me the tip i have been worried about the thigh muscle and its good to get your advice that it gets better in time i think this kind of advice from others who have been through the same is best i will keep you posted on my progress if thats ok thanks .
Stiffness is common, too. Anytime I sit too long or even lay in one position in bed, I am stiff. Rainy and snowy days bring ADDED stiffness as well. Try stretching in bed before you ever get out of bed. Stretch before getting up out of a chair or out of a car. It really is time well spent and provides more stability and better balance once you ARE up, as well.
When your quad muscles strengthen, the leg WILL lift. At first I was proud of myself when I could move my TOES.
"I had my knee replacement 5 days ago i 5hink i am like a lot of others in the forum lifting my leg straight up is very painful and im still swelled uo hopefully it will get easier with the exercises i do each day i have taken the mediation regularly and im sure this helps but my knee is still quite stiff in the morning i feel for anyone who is going through this it isnt easy but i am assured by others who have been through it it does get easier .
Agreed that sleeping is a major challenge. I can't go more than a couple hours without waking.
As mentioned, keep doing the exercises. It is so important to get the muscle strength back. I can do 12 inch up steps, balance on uneven surface and sqaut to almost a sitting position. I have never taken a day off.
"I had my TKA 31 days ago. The first 10 days were hell. I was only in the hospital for 1 night and started formal PT two days later. I just finished my 13th session (3 days a week) and am able to bend to 118 degrees. The swelling is what my biggest impediment is. It swells all the way to my foot. What I have found helpful is to use the ace wrap. I tried not doing that today and am paying dearly for it.
"These are all very good points. I'm 62 in November and had the op for pain reasons. I'm hoping that at the end of my recovery to walk further than I could without pain.
I assume things are better now 1 yr out. I'm 3 weeks post tkr and still reliant on 10 mg oxy plus 2 extra strength Tylenol 3x a day. Like everyone else, nights are a killer. Without medicating 1 hr prior to bed, it's a toss and turn game. I'm young, 55, and fit but this surgery knocked me on my butt in terms of pain and general sense of well being. How long till the swelling and stiffness abates?
"Im getting cramp in my foot everytime i put icepack on my calf,any idea y.im 5wk int tkr.x
"We all need to remember everyone is different. I carried on with Ibuprofen for a couple of days after the ant-acid Lanzoprolol had run out and ended up with the most severe stomach pains I had ever had. Ended up in A&E where they suspected my stomach lining had been irritated/damaged by the Ibuprofen. Iw on't go near the stuff again!
"Keep stretching. I get good results by stepping up on one step with one foot and leaning into my knee bend gently, holding for a count of 30 then resting. You can hold onto the railing for safety. I continue to do this several times a day.
Rashes and itching are SO annoying! Try using Ivory soap for awhile. Our school nurse suggested that to me, and it helped. It also does an excellent job on poison ivy, too!
After using Neosporin for years, I developed an itchy rash using it on my arm one day. Our son had a similar reaction. I figured they MAY have changed something in the medication.
"Thank you very much guess just have to be patient I also take oxycodone and hydrocodon also on ibuprofen yes the bumps are very itchy but I've had no fevers I will try the compression socks thanks for the tip ..
"Trouble I have now is my knee is still very sore stiff and hard! Having a time getting it bent enough for the therapist liking thanks for responding back have a great day!
The Oxycodone and Hydrocodone I took with Knee #1 and then Knee#2 didn't help me nearly as well as plain old WONDERFUL Ibuprophen! You may find it to be true as well.
I am doing fine now one year and nine months respectively from the two surgeries.
My second surgery (Right Knee) three and a half months later went so effortlessly that I could move my right leg all around even in the recovery room and was discharged after just two days.
I ran into a similar situation but in the opposite order. My first (Left Knee) had TERRIBLE SWELLING and felt so heavy that I thought they just MIGHT have put in a prosthesis made of IRON!??
"I had my first tkr in March and had no problems just the regular aches and pains but was driving and going up and down stairs just fine so I decided to do my other knee big mistake Iam in so much pain had done June 21st still can't bend my knee at all the swelling doesn't go down no matter what I try pt is so painful I cry everytime of course they always say it will get better my scare is so stiff I still use a walker I'm on 2 different pain pills so much of the time just lay around in pain I have like bumps on my incision that are very tender does anyone else have this problem and what can I do ..please help
"I have a continual, deep pain/ache in practically the whole of my leg. I use ice on it (frozen peas!) a great deal of the time and I take my pain killers. At night I cannot sleep because there is nowhere New I can put my leg which does not become become equally painful within a few seconds. Anybody else have this problem? Also, I had to stop taking Diclofenac a few days before the op. How long before I can take it again?
"I had mine done a week ago yesterday, my nights are the worse.I wish you a speedy recovery!
"Not sure if you can get your doctor to order a continuous motion machine for you or not, but if he will, you WILL sleep at night. The constant movement keeps the knee from swelling up during the night and sleep makes your recovery quicker. I also recommend an ice machine which has a wrap that alliws a constant COLD air around the knee during waking hours. This also aids in healing. I'm now almost 7 weeks post op and my knee feels like I never had surgery. Therapy is a MUST. At least twice a week and do your exercises 3 times a day!
The pain associated with TKR has been a shock to me as everyone that has had this surgery either forgot the pain or out and out lied! The only surgery that was more painful was plastic surgery to repair where they cut away my abdominal area due to MRSA infection. Pain does subside especially if you have therapy. The more you stretch the knee the less pain you'll have. Keep up the great work but, if you even think you have an infection DO NOT WAIT. GO TO EMERGENCY. Infections can kill you!
"I can't believe you're driving! It's my right knee so I was told 6 weeks! I live in the U.S.
this forum is fantastic, it is 3.30 a.m and I shall go back to non-sleep thinking I am fairly normal. Cab drive car round car parks etc, pressure on accelerator and brake helps pain! Thanks all
i havent seen physio since two minute session befone I left Hosp, 18 hours post-op, decided I am going to the hosp tomorrow and get someone to confirm it is ok, Bank Hol weekend Sunday but dont mind waiting.
"I am nine days post TKR, it is the lack of any sleep position that bugs me. I was great for first 72 hours then went berserk with pain, thought I might have infection. Dist Nurse came, changed dressing and thought it was 'a dit warm' so am on a weeks max dose Flucloxacillin. Thus feel ugh as well as pain. Walking gently, without crutches, is the one way to relieve pain. Feel as if I only had total of six hours sleep since the 72 hours.
Ask you doctor about getting one for you. My insurance covered the cost and I'm in the U.S. with terrible Obamacare, but that was covered.
I'm amazed that I haven't seen anyone that went home with a continuous movement machine. I don't know what I would have done without it. It moves the leg bending the knee all through the night which makes sleeping possible and the pain bearable.
"I was still having a hard time after 17 days. Everyone is going to have their own experience, but if you aren't perceiving improvement, contact your doctor.
"I had TKR 17 days ago and having the same problem sleeping. I also have extreme pain every time I get up from a chair or using the toilet. Is this normal at 17 days, or should I be past this pain level?
"Hello Ann, I am right in line with you as far as the time span of surgery. I had mine on April 18th. My knee is as swollen (and a little red) as the day it was first done. The pain comes and goes but really hurts during PT or if they want me to stretch it out strait and keep it like that so it will loosen the back part of the muscles. I guess anti iflammitories would help but I can't take them because of my stomach. But I do have the problem with sleeping under control. I try to elevate my leg and get it as comfortable as my body will allow it and take my sleeping pill. It's not foolproof because sometimes I wake in strange painful positions. But I just wanted to let you know I am right here if you want to share things that are going on with you too. So take care and good luck. Also, I will be taking advice from the people here because I'm sure they have good info.
Each week i see an improvement ,I take less painkillers get through the exercise regime easier ( less groaning and face pulling) My biggest hurdle is not getting enough sleep at night. So do not give up hope just keep on grinding it out Colinx
"Pam, you would not believe how much 2 weeks makes I was recently at a Physio session, another man had his op a wk before me and a lady a wk ltr so 3 wks in total . The difference in progress was huge, in mobility, flex pain management. the only common complaint was sleep deprevation
As well as removing metalwork to my lower knee.I though i would be up and back to driving by now,So very depressed at the moment,can just about get up stairs and down,Taking paracetamol,trying to bend and straighten knee but can just about manage 80d.I have no problem sleeping take tablet have a pillow under all of my lower leg,manage to sleep for about 5 hrs.
"Hi Colin, Like you i had a complete knee replacement on 15/1/16.
i wish to share 1 symptom , my constant moaning and groaning to my wife!!I have read lots of handy tips on positions of pillows, Alisons tip is one over my face to shut me up. i am on week 6 and thought by now other than a bit of discomfort all would be rainbows and buttercups.I have to to tell my self if this was a car accident we we all be in a poor state,We are all different and all experience the proceedure at different levels pain, mobility, sleep deprivation plus the whole emotional rollercoaster ride So for me when I can I smile a lttle, and tell my self this will not last for ever even the constipation from the pain killers.
"I had tkr on the 2 1 2016 and reading as many comments as I can it appears we all agree broadly on all the problems ie pain,heat in the joint, transferred pain to the shin and thigh, clicking and clunking in the joint and the overall pain and discomfort.
I noticed that you are using a bag of ice. I tried that number for several weeks and it was an incredible pain notably because I was pretty much taking care of myself. I HIGHLY recommend going through Amazon and purchasing a CryoCuff for your knee for icing and compression. It is very portable and I have even taken it in the car with me. The ice lasts for a good 6+ hrs and it is the size of a gallon picnic thermos. Check it out.
I have a friend that has an upcoming surgery for the same thing so I was like the guinea pig by going first. I wrote a spreadsheet for her of all the things to do pre op and post op that no one tells you about so that she could be fully prepared.
What I can tell you is that I started seeing a major shift at around 4 weeks with progress in the recovery. Was it huge? No but noticible enough to allow me to move forward knowing there was light at the end of the tunnel. You are still super early in your recovery.
It was validating to hear from others on this site in knowing that this is a very common complaint. I could not get comfortable because I could not lie on either side......only on my back which would start to hurt after awhile. They if I was really out and my body managed to slip to a side my knee would immediately let me know with blinding pain.
I am at 7 1/2 weeks and I can tell you that sleeping was a bitch.
"Hi Sue, I was advised by my Surgeon to not have both done at the same time. I had my left tkr done 10 days ago and have done very well. I am walking unaided. I left the hospital the day after surgery and negan home therapy 3 times a week. Today I walked 1/10 of a mile. Minimal pain, and minimal swelling. My Surgeon did not cut any muscle but moved it to the side. From what I am reading on this forum, I am glad he does this procedure. I have an appointment in 4 days to get my stitches out. I will continue therapy until I have the right done in 3 weeks. I hope that my right knee responds as my left has. Everyone does have different Rehab results. My tips are follow your PT exercises, ice as much as you can stand, keep up with pain management, and rest. Pray that you all have quick recoveries.
Many people aren't so fortunate. My mother-in-law was told by several surgeons that she NEEDED hips and knees replaced (severe RA) but that she was not in good enough health to survive any operation. She accepted the opinions but wished she had had options. She is now in a nursing home and unable to walk. I sure do wish we could run the clock back and get her into surgery a few decades ago!
I, too, am grateful that my surgery is completed and that I was a candidate FOR surgery. My X-RAYS prior to surgery were just pitiful. I knew surgery truly was my only option if I was to be able to live the rest of my life in a way that I wanted to live it.
I am three weeks post op with my right knee. Eighteen weeks ago I had my left knee done. Both individually were plenty challenging for me even though I was fortunate to suffer no complications. I think you and others who have had both knees done at the same time are INCREDIBLY BRAVE!
just wanted to say, everyone is different and recovery time is a long time. I can say I'm glad I had the operation and feel confident my new knees will be good for me. I have my first outing on a public bus this week and hoping I'll fair well. I think we all shouldn't be so hard on ourselves and We should marvel on the fact that we're able to have this operation.
id like to say I'm pain free now but of course, that's not the case. One knee as improved quicker than the other but they are both stiff and ache. Stairs are by far the worst. I was taken out for lunch today by my family. It was my first outing. I found sitting down on a normal height chair difficult and also, when I went to the bathroom the toilet seemed so far down. Id hired chairs for home. The walk around felt good but very slow.
i had bilateral knee replacements 3 weeks ago. I regretted having them done in the first week. I was in so much pain and didn't have a ""good"" leg to stand on. Physio got me up the day after my op and I used a walker where my elbows slotted into arm rests and sort of leaned into it to walk. I thought I would die. After 3 days, I walked on the aid to the gym and came back 45 minutes later on a walking stick. I cut out the use of crutches all together. I was amazed at my own determination. I used the stick for about 2 days and have been walking without any aid since.
Just watered my flowers outside and noticed I had forgotten my walker and/OR cane INSIDE! YOU will have this happen, too!
2 weeks post op from #2
"I had a total knee replacement 8 days ago and can identify with all of the posts regarding pain, swelling and in particular the difficulty of sleeping. I had my second therapy session today in home but had one on day 2 in the hospital. I went home from the hospital with a 95 bend and am now 105. I can walk stairs with pain. I have found the pain pills taken before and after therapy and the ice are lifesavers. Swelling is way down since yesterday. I am walking well with the walker. Cannot sleep because of the pain behind the knee but I doze off and nap in the recliner. Next knee replacement will take place in a little less than 4 weeks. Hope it goes well and the first is better by then.
"I also had knee replacement on the 2nd of October 2015. I could not sleep for the first two weeks after surgery as my knee would hurt so bad no matter what or where I postioned it. Week three is so much better I can walk around my house most days without my walker and my pain is very minimal compared to what it was.I would suggest you go back to your doctor if the pain continues, however keep in mind that each patient recovers at their own pace. Good Luck it will all be better soon.
I used my husband's belt looped around my foot to move my leg up and down, from side to side getting into bed, and getting it over the side of the tub while sitting on my shower stool. My physical therapist suggested this. I later discovered that she had had BOTH KNEES replaced four years ago when she was just 42. She moves so well know and you would never guess she had both knees replaced just a short time ago!
He is still in the very early stages at just one week post op. At that stage my left knee felt like a 1000 pound TREE TRUNK!
"Oh, YES! I had that same problem with my left knee total knee replacement this past June! When therapy came to work with me in the hospital the day after surgery I was unable to lift my leg, unable to move it side to side and felt NUMB from the nerve block for WEEKS after surgery!
"My Husband had a TKR one week ago he still can't lift his leg whilst sitting on the floor did anyone have this problem please apart from that he is doing pretty well I told him. It is still early but I would appreciate if someone who has had this problem could let me know for him thanks
I see my surgeon this coming Friday.
"The thought of using heat scares me. I don't want to take a chance on additional swelling at all! But I would live some relief!!
I'm a bit dubious about adding more heat though, seems plenty hot enough on its own - I love my ice pack, that's what's keeping me sane.
"Yeh, I was told to continue my pain meds for 2-3 days and the suggestion was it would start to get better after that... do they actually talk to their previous patients at all? It's definitely worse day 5 post op than it was day 3, plus my wound dressing is insanely itchy!!
"To everyone one who is struggling with post op pain following a knee replacement, maybe I can help. Today is postop day 11 and I have been to hell and back. By day three at home, I couldn't move, let alone exercise, because of the severity of the pain. Ice packs were helpful for the swelling and I was taking far more than the prescribed dose of pain killers to no avail. The solution? A heated wheat bag! Relief was instant. It's important not to have it too hot, so wrap it in a clean t towel before placing over the wound. I also sleep with a pillow under my back and shoulders, with my head resting on two pillows behind. I also sleep with a pillow lengthwise under my knee. This has allowed me to sleep comfortably on my back. The heat bag had been my saviour, may it be yours.
my physio told me to massage my scar line as I too find this seems to be getting tighter and inhibiting movement. It has really helped. I massage the scar every hour with Diprobase ointment and at night I have just started putting lots of cream on and then covering with knee support bandage. It has helped a little. Good luck with your progress, it is. A slow job!!!
I had my replacement 4 weeks ago and like you sleep is a nightmare. I think every time I move the leg it wakes me and then I am an hour or so before I get back to sleep.
I has my knee replacement Nov 2014 and still struggling with the bend
"I had my tkr 17\8\15 and it is still very stiff and painful. I di my excercises but am struggling with the bending. My scar also seems to be hardening and sleeping has been a nightmare, I am still in the spare room as my husband has to work and needs his rest.
Needless to say I am ecstatic with my new knee! It was very painful for the first 4 weeks with very little sleep. I worked out a lot getting stronger going into the surgery which both the PT and surgeon said helped a lot with my recovery. I also listened to my body after the surgery and did not do anything to agreviate it beyond what I felt comfortable with until the knee felt ready for it.
Finally, even after 6 months things are still improving. It use to hurt to fully flex my knee, but some time after 5 months even that pain is almost completely gone, and my flexion is probably maxed out now at the mechanical limit of the new joint at somewhere around 140º!
This past week I hiked a 6 mile trail with 2000 vertical feet. The knee never hurt at all but my natural knee and the sprained foot did! Looks like I ended up with a case of plantars fasciitis from spraining my foot back 2 months ago , but the new knee never blinked!
I know we're not suppose to run on it but I tried it out in 100 step units during a 3 mile walk to get my heart rate up. I had a GPS in my pocket and during one of the sections where I pushed it I hit 8.7 mph! Needless to say I probably won't be doing it again, but it was a great feeling to be able to run after 30 years of not being able!
It is really crazy how I am still learning to trust my TKR in places where I previously would of had to switch feet to protect that knee from pain for the past 30 years! What a relief!!!! An example is walking down a slope. Previously because of an ACL reconstrucion that got stretched, walking down a steep slope was impossible unless I went down sideways, now I can walk straight down it without any pain!
3 days later I hiked the same trail, but this time to the summit. It is a 3.3 mile round trip with 1500 vertical foot climb, some of it up fairly large boulder steps. I ended up doing the same hike 3x in the same week! I must say the surgeon was right, my natural knee hurt whereas the TKR knee was fine!
After 4 weeks recovery I did a fairly strenuous 1 mile hike up and back a mountainous trail, but kept it to a mile because my surgeon said to hold back on my first hike. The knee felt great, but my leg muscles were still and my aerobic fitness were the weak links!
4 months out I fell down a 1/2 flight of stairs and crunched by new knee and sprained my opposite foot. Luckily the knee was technically fine but did hurt and between the foot and the knee it set me back about 4 weeks.
Saw my surgeon at my 3 month appointment. He said my next appointment would be in a year, but asked that I text him to tell him how my knee did my first day back snow skiing! He also stated that my replacement knee would end up being my stronger knee because of the arthritis in my natural knee and that one would probably need to be replaced in 10 years.
I must say that I've been in the gym since the 4th week post op and I'm sure this has been the most important thing in my recovery.
I saw an in home PT for the first two weeks after the OP. By week 4 I could go without the heavy pain meds other than at night and used a combination of Ibuprofen and acetaminophen during the day so I could drive to the external PT. Saw him once one week than he scheduled me for 2 weeks later, and then 3 weeks after that! At the last appointment he said I was done with PT!!!??? I said I had my 2nd Dr's appointment in 6 weeks and asked if he thought I'd be ready, his reply was that I was already ready! I was already at 0º and 135º. PT said he wished all his patients did as well as me!
Pain was a killer until after 4 weeks when it finally started to subisde and basically got better every week. Every once in awhile I'd wake up to less pain.
First thing I have to correct was I said I was 57, that was wrong, I was 58 and had a birthday between then and now so I am now 59. I'll chalk the discrepancy up to the good meds!
"Now about 6 months post op.
not much new except slowly improving everyday. The most important thing is to stay up on the pain medication.
"I have a continual, deep pain/ache in practically the whole of my leg. I use ice on it (frozen peas!) a great deal of the time and I take my pain killers. At night I cannot sleep because there is nowhere New I can put my leg which does not become become equally painful within a few seconds. Anybody else have this problem? Also, I had to stop taking Diclofenac a few days before the op. How long before I can take it again?
Wish there was no pain but other than that extremely happy with results.
Originally had bouts of naseua but since taking medication with milk instead of ""food"" seems to really have helped.
Finished last morphene pill and only on Hydrocodone.
Pain seems to be a constant 3 up to 6 or more at times.
Swelling is noticebly better.
The terrible burning sensation from standing up appears to be gone.
Heat from underneath seems to help the soft tissue pain.
Flexion has gone up to 115º.
The PT just left. Did not measure flexion but appears to be 0º or better.
"7 days post op. 57 yres old.
"Hi Don...it's strange but all the people who I talked to before the TKR never mentioned the night pain. In my case I think having fine weather post OP has helped. It meant I could have my knee outside of the quilt. I've found, with my knee, that even the weight of a sheet was too much. In fact any material, including lightweight cotton PJs, touching the skin over the scar seemed to produce a static charge type of pain. I've found, in my case. Standing a chair cushion, wrapped in a pillow case. Upright between my legs while lying on my back. Created a tent space over my knee giving me much relief. Only waking if the 'tent' colapsed onto the knee.
I had taken the 2nd to last morpheme tablet an 1 hydrocodone last night before bed. I also applied ice while lying in bed. 4 hours later after tossing and turning in pain I got up and took 2 hydrocodone tablets and instead of ice I turned on the heating blanket. I know ice is good for swelling, but heat is good for relaxing muscles and soft tissues. That did the trick for another 4 hours when I woke again. Did the same thing again but climbed back into bed with an ice pack for 15 minutes then removed that and let the heating blanket do its thing. Seems to have worked. No additional swelling but the soft tissues and muscles seem quite a bit happier.
Last night I hit the wall again and could not get comfortable.
I've been doing pretty good with motion and strength and all of the little successes each day. Pain has still been an issue as we all know.
Strange how pain comes and goes with a TKR.
"just in case people are upset that they are not recovering as fast you have to remember that recovery is in the shape of the bell curve. Some will do better some of the worse and some will do average. I may been lucky that every step along the way my bell curve am hitting the upper end of it so everything is speeded up. I may of been doing just as well with a different knee implant, different surgeon, different surgical procedure into the knee, or different knee arthritic pattern. There are just so many variables that what is good for one person may not be so good for the next person. I'm just posting how my surgery went and what the results are for me. Not everyone will or can respond in the same fashion that I have. I'm also not out of the woods yet either as I don't know how it will continue to perform in the coming weeks months years.
"I forgot to say my surgeon used glue instead of sutures or staples so I was able to shower yesterday without fear of getting it wet since the entire area is covered in this clear plastic.
I am currently on morphine and Vicodin plus a blood thinner. Every day the swelling gets a little bit less, the pain a little bit less and my strength improves a little bit more. Only time will tell whether or not this new knee is as good as it seems and whether or not it would last as long as traditional knee replacements. Other than the ride home from the hospital I have been on my own preparing my own meals since coming home. I do have a freezer full of frozen food ready to go I wish you all the best hope you all keep improving.
Not sure if I should post that on a public forum. I think the best idea would be to go to conformis website and read everything on the site and watch all of the videos. My surgeon is one of the guys in one of the videos. I've always have been a cutting edge (no pun intended!!!) kind of guy so have no problem going with newer technology. The only thing is, I figure it is like any new technology, you never want the first generation. They are now on the second generation with some additional modifications added to it as some original issues had surfaced and haze been addressed. My surgeon is booked out 6 months in advance, does 5 TKR in a day and does it 2x a week that I am aware of. He also has people flying into New England from as far away as California that I am aware of. All I can say from what I'm reading, is recovery time for many seems to be way longer than what I am tracking for. I also know that I am putting in a lot of effort and pain to do it, but for now it is my full time job.
was operated on Monday released Wednesday and by Thursday was fully weight-bearing and gently walking on it without crutches. Friday I was going up and down stairs without crutches, one step at a time using my good leg. By the end of Friday I was finally able to do a couple of leg lifts without ant assist. Right now the most pain I get is from going flat to putting my legs down on the floor. It feels like battery acid is pouring into my veins. It takes about 3 minutes to slowly stand before I get over the pain. I max d out the CPM machine to 120 degrees on my 4th day post op. My extension is in the negative numbers (on the machine) but I really need to increase that as pre op I could not fully extend it. My knee is very rounded with inflammation so is difficult to bend on my own beyond 110 degrees. Starting last night I was able to roll over in bed without wincing in a lot of pain so my sleeping improved. A previous surgeon suggested I had an extremely high tolerance to pain as I had been bone on bone for the past 13 years yet still aggressively downhill skied on it. At the time I was 43 and he said I was a perfect candidate for a TKR replacement except for two problems, I was too young and I was too athletic. Fast forward 15 years and I started having issues with the knee again. Current surgeon looked at the new X-rays and read old report and said there's no reason any longer to wait. I went to the gym worked out hard with all the grinding going on and then just had surgery.
"I am an athletic 57-year-old male. I am five days postop left left TKR. I hit the wall the second day postop while in the hospital. The pain was just brutal! Since then it is steadily improving. I have one of the new Conformis iTotal knees. I have read there were some problems with some of the earlier ones which they have corrected. My surgeon did a minimally invasive procedure where the scar goes around the kneecap not across the top. The incision is about 5 inches long.
"Hi Ann, I had knee replacement 3 weeks ago , I was out after 6 days but within 3 days was back with an infection in my leg. I wonder how long your night pain went on for as I have the same thing , sleep almost impossible at minute when i do sleep I wake with a leg that feels so heavy and dead the only feeling in there is pain
"Thanks so much to those who've replied to me. I've just read them out to my husband and I think this has helped him to understand. I wish I had found this site earlier, it has helped me so much. I'll keep in touch.
"Oh dear mag we all know exactly how you feel. I also felt guilty about my husband doing everything but you have to just go with it at the moment. You are not able to do things for yourself and haven't hot the energy. The majority of us didn't do well I can assure you. The sleep is the main thing and the pain. I am still taking painkillers 8 weeks on. I think at 6 weeks things seemed to turn around, but that might have been just for me. It might happen for you a lot quicker. We all need the time to heal. I myself rested a lot, doing exercises when I felt able to do them. I didn't, like some people, exercise all the time. I myself thought it mor important to let my body do the talking. The nights were awful for me too, sleeping on the couch as I couldn't get comfortable in bed. I took NYtol for a while which seemed to help. Those first four weeks it is very hard to slerp eat snd exercise. You get plenty of rest Mags, let peopl wait on you and don't get down when you hear about others doing so well. Believe me things will get better for you. Everything seems to come together within a few days when you are ready. Keep us posted eith how you are feeling as we all will be able to sympathise and help you. Xxx
i think that we would all agree that nothing prepares you for the brutal nature of this op. Even our surgeons have not actually gone through it and everyone on this forum says the same. It is a long process and we all have different recoveries but the intense pain and sleepless nights are a constant
"I have been feeling so down, because I am a very independent 75year old. Now I have to rely on my husband and although he is very good to me, he comes home telling me how it is with people he has spoken to who are getting on so well. 2weeks on I'm still feeling very tired, (nights are horrendous). No one told me how difficult sleep would be. Also I didn't expect to be taking so many pain killers. The hospital gave me enough for a week. I am so thankful that I found this discussion and I have read out some of your accounts of pain after ops to my husband. It is so good to realise I am not on my own.
"I have a continual, deep pain/ache in practically the whole of my leg. I use ice on it (frozen peas!) a great deal of the time and I take my pain killers. At night I cannot sleep because there is nowhere New I can put my leg which does not become become equally painful within a few seconds. Anybody else have this problem? Also, I had to stop taking Diclofenac a few days before the op. How long before I can take it again?
i am on day 27 post op now.
the Best thing i have done is to buy a Cryo-cuff and tank like we had in hospital. I now have ice on tap 24 hours and its amazing. Money well spen and no peas in sight.
"Do get yourself a cuff for icing. It is a lot better than peas. Not too expensive either. Would have been lost without it. Nearly 6 weeks after Tkr.
"Hi Tracy thanks for your reply I think I am learning very quickly that it is a question of time. I had thought that once I had surgery that I would get good nights sleep with out pain. Never mind I will just keep napping. I hope that I can follow you progress.
"Hi Louse, my name is Tracy, I am a nurse and have just had 3 weeks ago a left TKR I had expectations of going back to 10 hr shifts within 6 weeks. This forum has helped me a lot. I have learnt to go with the flow don't expect too much in the first 6 weeks do the exercises and take plenty of pain relief and rest and ice. Good luck with your surgery.
"I am awaiting my tkr I am glad to have found this forum. I thought that I would have surgery and within few weeks be back to normal with no pain. I have watched the video of the op so felt I knew what to expect! I will add frozen peas to my list and make sure I have a good supply of pain relief ready. I hope all that have had theirs done are feeling a lot better. I look forward to reading your recoveries so that I am better informed for when my time comes !
"i am finding this also feels like there is a tight muscle stopping me from straightening my leg. I am ding the leg straightening exercise with the weight on my quads as the physio showed me but the pain is worse at night, especially the sciatica. My recliner rocke has become the place I sleep at the moment.
"Cold here in Essex but no snow, thank goodness. Don't go out in the ice that would be disastrous. Happy New Year 🍷
So I'll just have to walk up and down stairs more often and use my little pedal exerciser.
"It would be good to get some sleep. I wish it didn't take so long. Have had knee pain now for over two years, so am very fed up with it now! Let's hope we are all much better in 2015!!! It is a comfort to know I am not the only one.
I just think everyone heals at different rates and I guess my body is just taking a little longer than others but as I say
I'm constantly doing the knee straightening exercises My bend is fine
like you I'm not too bad during the day but I only manage to get 2 hours sleep at a time
"I. Had my knee replacement 16 weeks Go and still get the night time pain
"I had my knee replacement 11 weeks ago yesterday. Pain is more bearable during the day as am moving around and walking, but the nights are still awful. Pain all the time and just can't get comfortable. I think it's because the knee gets stiff when laying down. Pain in the back of knee still takes me by surprise. Can't believe this is all taking so long. Make sure you straighten your leg and do the knee clenching exercises to ensure you get good extension. My bend is good but the swelling is still 1 1/2 inches bigger than the other. Thank goodness my other knee is ok. Wishing you a good recovery.
"I had a tkr on 9th december 18 days ago and was doing ok. Nights are still pretty dreadfull with restless legs and pain. Just last night i woke up in agony with pain behind my knee and now i find it difficult to straighten my knee. It is like there is a strap around it pulling at my knee. It is incredibly stiff now. Has anyone else experienced this?
"I have a continual, deep pain/ache in practically the whole of my leg. I use ice on it (frozen peas!) a great deal of the time and I take my pain killers. At night I cannot sleep because there is nowhere New I can put my leg which does not become become equally painful within a few seconds. Anybody else have this problem? Also, I had to stop taking Diclofenac a few days before the op. How long before I can take it again?
I have a continual, deep pain/ache in practically the whole of my leg. I use ice on it (frozen peas!) a great deal of the time and I take my pain killers. At night I cannot sleep because there is nowhere New I can put my leg which does not become become equally painful within a few seconds. Anybody else have this problem? Also, I had to stop taking Diclofenac a few days before the op. How long before I can take it again?
I had mine 11 weeks ago now. I was seen at pre-op clinic, all info was given and an in depth booklet of information for before and after surgery answering 99% of the things that you might worry or ask about.
In early weeks like you I felt quite a lot of pain and it would go down my shin bone but mostly pain was around knee itself. I found it hard to sleep for long I was in/out bed at least three times a night not knowing where to put the leg for total comfort. I found taking my painkillers at regular times was a great help and doing last of physio exercises about an hour before bed and then sitting with the Ice Packs given from the hospital on the knee to cool it down after physio - to help sleep I would lie on my ""good side"" put a pillow between my knees so the bad knee was comfortable or lie on back, put a pillow under bad knee its just comfort for a while but as the weeks go on it gets better. I only started to sleep without pillow at 8 weeks and was sleeping for about 4 hours now I am sleeping for approx. 6+ still a little restless. Each morning I feel like the knee has seized up and takes a while to get going but I do exercises bending knee etc and its fine after about half hour. If I sit for too long it seizes up and I have to stand for a second or so before moving off. I am still going to Physio as I don't seem to have enough bend on the knee and its still really painful to do also I cant go down stairs easily yet too painful. It is a long process so don't despair you will get there.
I had a T KR in November of last year very painful and was in intensive care for 4 days, I then had many physio sessions....then in January of this year a had a manipulation as the knee was not bending sufficiently....in April I had two more manipulations and arthroscopic surgery thinking yes! This is finally going to be OK but no still having physio after in excess of 55 sessions........it is still only bending to just and I mean just 90 degrees still far from sufficient movement, I have been unable to drive also since last November .....so now we have had to change our car to accomodate my problem .....NOT. ON .....but had to be done....I am now waiting next week to have a nuclear scan on my knee to see why????? Insufficient movement.....and it is almost certain for another TKR which I can assure you I am not looking forward to.........has anyone else had this problem ? Thankyou for any help or replies .
not really had that kind of problem but have had 2 tkr s in 4 and a half months , and can say that the 2nd was much easier than the first , think a lot of it was in my mind that i was more possitive and had worked out easier things , like walking ,sleeping ,bathing and such , so didnt push my self the same but i did bend my knee all the time while watching telly ,each time i felt pain i took my time working on that pain ,i also found that after a shower i got a towel and rubbed my knee good and hard ,and oiled it rubbing the oil in my knee when ever i was sat even when i went to bed .hope it works out for you
I had TKR in February of 2014 and have nothing but problems. My knee is so swollen and very painfull and I can't sleep at night. What can I do? My doctor said he knows there is something wrong, but can;t figure it out. Please help!
I am still in so much pain after a year of surgery and my knee is so swollen. How did you know you needed surgery again? I am affraid to trust any doctors.
I had TKR right knee 4sept last year and still have pain swelling and bruising
i spent 9 days in hospital due to horrific bruising from the bottom half of my stomach to right underneath my foot and a fall the day after the op
physio was useless I only had 5 sessions which I truly think was nowhere near enough
I have to see my Surgeon again on the 25th this month and he said last time that if it was no different he would investigate further
i still don't sleep very well and wake every time I shift my knee to another position
I'm sure you will read, and have read, that every person is difference in their recovery. I am 5 and a half weeks post op. I started physical therapy 3 days after my surgery. It was so painful I cried the first couple of times but it does get easier. My best advice to you is to do the exercises, especially lifting the leg and bending It. I was driving after 2 and a half weeks but drive an automatic. I was off crutches also at 2 and a half weeks. I do physical therapy 3 times a week and am making great progress. I can bend the knee to 120, stand on just the surgery leg for 1 minute sessions, am going up and down steps but with pain going down. The first 12 days were hell for me as pain was so intense but it eased after that. I still have some pain and swelling but it's so much betier now. Currently I have an abscess where one of my stitches poked thru the skin and am treating that with peroxide and antibiotic ointment. Sleeping is still dufficult. In the early days I slept on my back with my foot elevated and ice off and on. Now I sleep I need my side with a pillow between my knees and can sleep for about 2 hours before I have to change positions. It DOES get easier but takes time. Don't get discouraged! This forum is a great place to compare recoveries, ask questions, get answers and for emotional support and encouragement. Hang in there. Take your pain med school regularly. I wish you luck!!
Wow! Your note here could not be more timely. I am one week post TKA and have a hundred questions and cautions going thru my mind. Ive experienced constant knee pain of varing degree depending on range of pain meds. I have experienced similar inability to get comfortable especially at night. Restful sleep has not happened. My #1 concern is that I will require manipulation surgery because I can not break thru the swelling to bend my knee to 90 degrees and I am still laying on my back 24/7 Can anyone comment?
I had a full knee replacement 5 days ago lots of pain but yesterday I noticed when ewaking with my crutches my knee is clicking have you had same
I had TKR 14 months ago. A few months after that I had MUA (manipulation under anaesthetic) as I wasnt getting the bend. My knee clicks all the time, I spose thats one of them things. I've been on high dosage of pain killers since my op. I go back again next week as Ive started getting more pain than usual. Keep doing the exercises and hopefully you will make that bend.
very very early days take each day as it comes like you I am 2 mnth I found doing exercises 2 mnth before the op very helpful and making sure before any attempt at exercise take the strogest pain relief possible 40min before starting and 20 min of ice at the end of work out it works believe me
Will b seeing the consultant on Saturday,I hope to be rid of these terrible tight stockings.Also have a lump on my knee where the metalwork was removed.But after reading all the coments I feel so much better,still have alot of problem bending my knee ,they have booked me in for heated pool next week so that may help.Still cannot walk more than 6 paces any comments.
I am having a TKR on Wednesday, and I am anxious and looking forward to hopefully being able to walk without so much pain on the other side of my recovery.
I am sure that the initial process will be painful, and it's good to know that if a few tears are shed, I won't be alone.
Mine TKR was 6 days ago. im frustrated because i still can't lift my leg. PT gave me excercises to do... I can do most but lift my leg with my thigh muscle.. how long does it take.... i also have to still take pain meds due to not be able to sleep at night
I will keep you all posted on my recovery and look forward to the Forum of Support.
Took me 11 days with the first knee and 8 with the second just keep persevering and it will come
My TKR was 13 days ago. I was very disappointed in my recovery progress. I placed too much pressure on myself to progress rapidly, as I had read others had. Today is the first day at PT that I felt good about my progress. I don't have issues with my thigh muscles now. However I don't think I had significant control until this past weekend (11 days). If you are like me once the inflammation goes down you will see significant progress. Please don't push yourself more than your body wants. I made the mistake of pushing myself real hard looking for success. All that did was to create a setback as my knee was aggravated by the excessive exercising. My knee became enraged, stiffened up and had significant swelling. Rest, take your medication as prescribed, try to do your exercises reasonably. If it hurts too much then listen to your body. Once your swelling goes down a good portion of the pain goes with it. My knee still cannot bend as much as I would like it to but that is my focus now. I can straighten it but to bend it back is difficult.
It is still somewhat difficult for me to sleep through the night. However it is much better now than just the past couple of days. I generally wake a couple of times with sharp or throbbing pain in my knee. If I take my medication before I go to sleep it helps significantly. When I awake, I ice and if the time is correct I take my pain medication again. Don't try to tuff it out! The medication was prescribed for a reason, use it. It will help you to get a better night sleep which makes everything seem a bit brighter.
Ahh Doman thanks for your response. .I think I am trying to push to much to soon, I will take your advice and listen to my body....I hate taking meds but like you said , I obviously nred them or he would not have prescribed. ....take care of yourself too and I will update.
I had the same problem! My left leg LITERALLY felt like a tree trunk filled with CEMENT!
My physical therapist who came to my home while I was homebound had me loop one of my husband's belts to make a kind of lasso which I would then slide my foot into like a stirrup on a horse. I could THEN use the long strap end to maneuver my leg wherever I wanted it to go.
This worked GREAT to get my leg onto the bed, onto the ottoman, and onto the couch once I had sat down on the couch and wanted to elevate my legs.
After awhile with exercises I could move my leg much better because I built up my quad muscle.
Try the belt loop thing! It really made a HUGE difference and built independence, too!
I'm almost 4 weeks post-op right now. You'll see great improvement in weeks 2-3.
I can stand alone on my surgical leg indefinitely now, walk without assistance (although I have ditched the walker and now use a cane), and most importantly can lift my leg!
Only 4 weeks post-op but have been very lucky. I was up and walking within 4 hours of surgery using a walker (rollator) . Went home on the 2nd day and switched to a cane for only outside walking. Walking unassisted now, can navigate stairs and have 119 degrees range already. My only problem now is swelling which at times seems excessive and very painful, but I'm totally off all pain medications.
I'm 64 years old, have Lupus and RA, Fibromyalgia too. But other than the degree of pain associated with TKR (right knee) I have been amazed at how quickly I'm getting around. Still not allowed to drive, 2 more weeks, but with proper pain medications, a constant range motion machine after surgery and the ice machine, I'm well on the way to a total recovery.
I had surgery 15days ago. I was also worried about the bending issue, my swelling was terrible and I was not able to get 90 degree until this week. My advice is ice it under knee and from upper thigh to just below knee area. I also take Allieve to help, that did bring my swelling down enough to work more on my bending still hurts like heck but power through it and you will get there.
I'm one week out and have exactly the same problem. I just can't make my leg do a lift, it's very frustrating. I feel like this should be easier...
I do have TKR in 2012 I have proplem with it since day one now is 20016 and my doctor say is gana be good before the surgery I think it's all a bout bussnis and making money but the true is not good for allot of pepole haven tkr reed hear haw many pepole on Paine I Canot walk up stiers I'm in Paine every day swaling and up normal click sound one day is bleding under the skine I m not going to see the same doctor and now a new doctor after he don exry he say you kneed anther TKR on same knee haw I will have 2 Surgry and I'm not Paine free from the first one knee replcement it's bad and make pepole go on despltiy I'm telling every one do search on your knee replcement part know the name it's on your surgery report and inventory report you will know that the name of the knee and the company make it have recal or not or the FDA recall allot of knee part from this company or not cos that's the proplem we haven and every one hear have its proplem and Paine cos this knee device and part not good for us ask do your serch before you end like me with bad leg and doctore they don't say the true all time it's bussnis
I'm in the UK just got home after total knee replacement God it hurts so bad. It's 3 am hear just been to bathroom took 15 mins to get out of bed the pain so bad I was crying . Well hot to try and get some sleep x
Don't get discouraged. I was finally able to lift my leg 15 days after surgery. Your body is trying to heal from very painful surgery. All of us are different and we are not in a contest. There needs to be a balance between pain meds, ice, rest, ice, exercise, ice, etc. I wish you the best.
I am now now 7 months post op. Both done at same time. I can now say that things are better. I have clicking and snapping when I walk. I think as my muscles tone up and get stronger that may lessen. I take 800 ibu. A day and that seems to help. Stiffness is a normal thing for me. Doc says i need to crael on the ground. He says i should be able to do everything as normally as possible. Just cant seem to bring myself to work diligently on that. Doing for on someone won't work well if I can't get on my knees! So need to work on that. It's gets better give it time.
I'm taking meds after 10 days and wondering if that's too long. But it helps me get up and moving.
I am now now 7 months post op. Both done at same time. I can now say that things are better. I have clicking and snapping when I walk. I think as my muscles tone up and get stronger that may lessen. I take 800 ibu. A day and that seems to help. Stiffness is a normal thing for me. Doc says i need to crael on the ground. He says i should be able to do everything as normally as possible. Just cant seem to bring myself to work diligently on that. Doing for on someone won't work well if I can't get on my knees! So need to work on that. It's gets better give it time.
how funny I am a retired registered nurse here in the US and I am used to being the giver as well. this having the tkr is driving me nuts ! it is great I have a wonderful guy , taking care of me ! but I feel like I am inhibiting him as well.
I am 13 days post op. I have no problem sleeping but swelling and the painful thigh muscle is not pleasant. I know it takes time , but I am type A and I want it over now. LOL .
Hi as a carer it's a lot harder I had mine done 3 days ago God the pain made me cry last nite first nite home . Feeling bit better today but scared about later as when been sleep last nite couple hours with leg straight it hurt so bad when I had to go to bathroom to stand up I was crying with the pain
I have a continual, deep pain/ache in practically the whole of my leg. I use ice on it (frozen peas!) a great deal of the time and I take my pain killers. At night I cannot sleep because there is nowhere New I can put my leg which does not become become equally painful within a few seconds. Anybody else have this problem? Also, I had to stop taking Diclofenac a few days before the op. How long before I can take it again?
wow thank s to both of you , in 5 weeks post opp and didn't attend the pre opp group because I was only given 4 days notice and only had time to get my pre med , I too have this same pain in the back of my knee I have worked hard at my physo and now have been discharged ,with an sos if I feel the need to have more in the next 6 weeks . I too have found sleeping hard not being comfortable on my side so have to sleep with a pillow , when I came out of hospital I didn't really have any information , thanks to you both I now feel the pain is normal .so ann it will get better ,it takes time and like you I thought after a short time I wouldn't have pain ,
I, too, only had four days to prepare. It really isn't the best thing to happen. We felt rushed and we never did see important reading materials. People kept asking me if I'd read this or that paper and I kept telling them I never received them...they went to the wrong address. It is all kind of a blur.
ast time I some to you I'd just had TNR and was in so much pain. Well so much has happened since then could not go to the toilet for 3 weeks woke up one morning with bad cramps thought I was going to die. After passing some I nearly passed out lost lots of blood. Layed in bed for 3 days. Doctor told me to stop pain meds .eat lost of firba which I did etc. Then no toilet again for a week cramps again enough is enough. I then took 8 movcol . O yes that worked the yesterday
I can now see that I was being very optimistic! I read all the stuff about what to expect but I still didn't expect this inability to sleep etc. I've spoken to the hospital and was told to take paracetamol and codeine 4 times a day and Diclofenac 3 times a day, and to put ice (not frozen peas!) on my leg for 20 min sessions. I've been doing that, more or less, anyway, but maybe an extra Diclofenac (I was only taking 2 per day) and ice instead of frozen peas, will do the trick!! Anyway, I now realise I was expecting far too much too soon. Thanks again, and it hope your pain disappears very soon.
I understand where you were coming from because I did the same , no one said any thing to me about not sleeping , or the pain in my knees while I stand in a que ,or when I move in bed , I thought I was going to be stiff not painful and stiff , I did physo for 3 weeks with a different person each time they all said slow down its early days , my gp said the same ,it wasn't till I read yours and margarets that I realised that what people told me was right , so now I take time to relax and chill
I had a unicompartmental medial knee replacement on 20th March. I am having real problems with the bending of my knee. They said at hospital that I had to have a 90degree bend before they would discharge me but I failed this target miserably and went home anyway on day 4. I have now been home a week and am still not quite reaching the 90 bend - it feels hot and like my knee will explode when I get to the limit of where it wants to bend to. On Thursday this week I have to have my staples removed and am really nervous about this - how did any of you find/cope with this? One of the really worst things I found in hospital was having the drain removed...did you find this??? Sorry to bombard with questions...
its one month since my TKR and finding this forum has been so welcome. I had a booklet but no one told me how painful my leg would be. I have had one physio session and told I was trying to do way too much, but I thought the more I pushed the knee the quicker it would recover! Sleep is also my biggest challenge and chronic tiredness doesn't help my mood, I have also been told the hip needs replacing soon but really worried about coping with this type/ level of pain again! My scar feels very tight and even with cream and massage it doesn't help!! Any hints would be most welcome.
I am 11 weeks post op from my TKR. I have my other knee replacement on Oct. 9th.
What helps me the most is taking naps when I get tired instead of fighting it. A half hour of REALLY good sleep when I am truly tired is better than TRYING to sleep at night when pain seems to be greater.
I like to move around a lot throughout the day to keep loose. This helps the PAIN and makes me less stiff. I find that stretching to increase my BEND helps to loosen my incision area and break up scar tissue. I ease gently into EVERY stretch then hold it for 30 seconds.
I stretch in bed before my feet ever touch the floor. This helps me balance as I get out of bed and makes those first few stiff minutes easier.
I haven't had a hip replacement, but people I have talked to that have had knees and HIPS REPLACED have ALL said HIPS are easier than knees.
I DO take my temperature often. I get high fevers if I DO get a fever and often don't realize I am already at 100° if I go without taking my temperature. One thing I DON'T ever want to do is ignore a possible infection. That could cause all kinds of trouble with a knee replacement or ANY replacement.
I would like to second what Cheryl has said. I am 32 days post tkr. It has been horrendous but is getting better. I go to pt 3x a week and do exercises at home. Maybe not as often as I should, but I make sure to do them. Massaging my knee with vitamin e oil a few times a day and keeping it iced. I am to go back to work in 7 days and am a bit anxious about it. I now use only a cane to get around and it does get easier every day.
I think the sleep problems and aching bother me the most.
I had a quick recovery in regard to movement, I was at 120 degrees by 6 weeks post surgery, however, I have a terrible problem with severe swelling. Went for an ultrasound and no blood clots thank goodness, just it looks twice the size of my other leg. It's also very stiff, but the more I walk and do my exercises the better it feels, until it swells again. Elevation and lots of ice for me. I thought by 14 weeks I would be as good as new, but I'm told I could have stiffness and swelling for 12 months! Glad I had it done, but if the other knee needs replacing, I'll really have to be in agony before doing this again.
I know where you are coming from. I can't bind my knee much. Almost 3 weeks out can't get swelling down feels like something is cutting off circulation. My foot gets cold and hurts.
hi im now 3 1/2 weeks after tkr and the pain in the inside of my knee when i try to bend it is unbearble , the pt got 70 degree bend today but when i try it on mu own iys hell, how are you doing now and is there a light at the end of the tunnel .
I'm at day 21, the more I walk the angrier my knee responds, doing stretches at 70 degree bend, sleeping fitfully, it's a long road to recovery but try not to do too much too soon. Be strong.
Hi Wendy, I had my staples removed a few days ago , 52 of them and some were sore but on the whole it was no problem, certainly no where near the pain I have experienced with my knee since the operation
I have had a total knee replacement!
Some people tend to have such a high pain threshold. I went to PT today and I felt like screaming and the exercises weren't all that drastic. I have wondered if some people, by nature, just take longer to recuperate and cope with the bending and stretching. I could not face this again and I am use to a lot of pain from migraines and arthritis for 45 years.
Yes everyone is different. Don't compare yourself to any one else. Everyone's healing time is different. I am 1 year out and have learned to just focus on my own recovery and do what I can. I rehabbed myself and wished I would've had rehab done. It is super painful but on this side of it, It's all worth it. Take your pain meds, bring your ice bag worked hard and ice it when your done. I did a lot of Jacuzzi therapy and bent my knee hard, I think that was the key to my success. I'm not pain free but I would definitely do it again. My heel doesn't touch my rear but Im close. I had both done and had complications with each one so I was a hard case. But today, no more throbbing or aching from arthritis. Just dealing with swelling a bit. This time will pass and you will be feeling better. Give yourself about 6 months and then each month gets better.
I can't help much about the 90deg bend as I wasn't required to do that before I left hospital after 3 days. My knee, however, was very hot and swollen for a long time. It still gets warm. Were you told to put ice bags on it? It's now gradually going down ( I had my op a week before you) but is by no means comfortable. I had stitches (allergic to most metals) and even tho I was concerned about what would happen, it was fine when they came out. My knee is gradually bending more and I'm sure yours will be fine after a while. Good luck