"hello, have you tried to drink cabbage juice ? does it help ? Thanks.
Don't cheat yourself out of this opportunity to finally right your ship. This IS the answer. No medicine is going to help you. You don't need your doctor to do this. You likely have small intestine bacterial overgrowth (SIBO).
"Hiya leanne what are yoir symptoms hun xx?
I know you posted this years ago, but if you are still having trouble, have you tried over the counter Betaine HCl pills? With Gastritis it’s actually possible that you don’t have enough acid in your stomach.
"Could it be gallbladder related?
"Anybody tried Chinese medicine?
Testing for H-Pylori is a good place to start and none invasive as are probiotics. I believe there is also a natural way to eradicate this bug if you don't want to take the antibiotics.
The treatment is 2 types of antibiotics for 1 week and proton pump inhibitors for 3 weeks.
The test for this is a very simple stool test.
H-Pylori? (a common bug which sometimes causes stomach problems).
Have you been tested for
"Ask Dr for zopiclone sleeping tablets All the best Shirley
Good luck and i hope this cures you.
General doctors may not know what's wrong with you, the human body is very complex and doctors may oversee a lot of things, take the doctors advice but trust your own body too. This is your life and in order to be happy you have to get as many second opinions as you can afford. These bugs also sap your seratonin which makes you depressed. So its all worth it to find out whats wrong.
Avoid sugar, which they will use to grow and camouflage from tests. Spicy, greasy, acidic and fried foods will rile them up causing hyper activity. Antacids may also help. You may have to go this diet for a year, until your whole family is treated.
For now eat a strict vegetarian diet, green tea, manuka honey. But you may eat a steak once in a while to up your protein, as h.pylori loves stealing your protein.
My recommendation go to a specialist for parasites who can do a full stool analysis. Parasitology is not that expensive. I would only do this route as it will be more accurate and lease inasive. You may also do a breath test or blood test if you want which are the least expensive.
Based on the symptoms you desribed, the attack sounds like a parasite called h.pylori. which is sometimes difficult to detect, this bacteria lives in your stomach lining and destroys it sapping you from iron and continuing to make all sorts of symptoms. If not treated eventually will lead to stomach cancer at old age. In younger ages, you may develop several ulcers and heal constantly from time to time, so don't panick just yet, because its also curable. Your body will build antigen to fight this parasite, but they will have a fight or flight mode that will hide their precence by hiding under sugar.
What you are experiencing and children are experiencing are parasite infestation, small harmful organisms living in your stomach. This could be one type, or several types of parasites wreaking stomach issues.
"Hi Jenny. I wanted to see
What to do when it flares up especially at the middle of the night? Please advise.
"Donna has anyone tested your lipase with a blood test? High lipase usually means pancreas problem. 80 percent is alcohol caused while 20 percent is bacteria toxins like lipitor for lowering cholesterol. Also in that 20 percent the doctor can't define the cause. Lookup fodmap diet, gluten-free and lactose free. Also if you have any auto immune issues that could be a factor. Cheers Gipsy
"Ooh that's good to know! Sound
"Ahh yes, like yoghurt but fermented. You can make it at home with a culture. Also make it with coconut milk for dairy free. Cheers Gipsy
"Nope its actually a milk fermented with a special bacteria, not entirely sure, and it sounds gross, but you should google it slippery elm bark sounds interesting though. Good luck
"By the way, beware the antacids, doctors regularly goto this and unfortunately it can make things worse. Gastro can often be because your acids are LOW and antacid is a nono. Get the doc to check if you are vitamin B12 deficient.
she had through xray, ultrasound, endoscopy , all normal.
Much love and hopefull outcomes. I hope I could help even just a tiny bit. Xoxo
Try what ever mental counceling or pills they offer. At this point, it's worth trying. Even if you got for it and it doesn't work you still WIN. You still had the guts to head straight into something that might frighten you. That bravery will take you places. And if it doesn't help that's when you put that middle finger up to the docs and yell HELP ME NOW! It's the game we unfortunately have to play to be heard. In the end it might just help the despair you feel and you can let your mind be a little free, and at ease while the focus is directed back to the actually problem you might have.
You are not alone. I know the worst kind of sad is not being able to explain why. Or being in pain and feeling like you're being called a liar. But you're stronger than you let yourself be. Be gentle with yourself, you're doing the best you can. Sometimes what you are most afraid of doing is the very thing that will set you free.
Negative thinking leads to negative emotions. Train your mind to be positive. Meditate, chakra, go see a counselor. There are options. And it's never too late.
""Everything will be okay in the end. If it's not okay, it's not the end.""
Pray you find answers soon.
"I am sorry you are suffering so. Where exactly is the pain? Have you had an ultrasound of your gall bladder? Have you had an endoscopy? Have you tried a FODMAP diet? Can you switch docs?
"I don't know if this will help but google this; Acute Intermittent Porphyria . Maybe it can tie some lose ends together or simply test yourself for this. Might not be the answer you want but it could be an answer. Many doctors miss this. Worth a shot.
If you could get back to me asap i would be extremely grateful.
"I'm sorry you're experiencing such pain and stress. You should also ask your doc to order an ultrasound of your gallbladder.
"Sorry for the grammar/punctuation.
"Hi Jenny, I hope you get some good news soon!
"Could it be caused by any medication that you are taking or perhaps a change in your diet
Good luck and I hope you find som relief!
"Take your self to A&E of no one is willing to help, we never know what's going on inside so it's better to be safe
"Jenny can I ask are you still the same or better now?
Hope you get sorted Jenny x
Hopefully you get things sorted. If I do get any further with some answers I will post on here.
Other problem you find with all these websites is people always put what's wrong but rarly come back with solutions of what is wrong.
"Hi Frank, very frustrating isn't it. Nice when results all come back clear and nothing sinister but still no closer to sorting out the problem.
Just wondered how you are and if you got to the bottoms of it.
http://patient.uservoice.com/knowledgebase/articles/398331-private-messages
Emis Moderator comment: I have removed the email address as we do not publish these in the forums. If users wish to exchange contact details please use the Private Message service.
You may not have it but it's something for some reason that doctors don't seem to think of.
i wish everyone who got this pain get well soon. And please keep forwarding for any tips that might help
Have u had any relief?
I was wondering if you've managed to find any solution to the pain?
Glad to see someone is on the forum today, I'm spending today scouring the Internet for info and got notified there was a response to read. Have you been to a doctor recently?
What I would recommend (and I have no doubt you've done your fair share of this) is continue to haunt the Internet for ideas based upon your symptoms and then haunt your doctor to work with you. Hopefully we've found a GI doc who seems to actually be interested in helping people rather than just randomly trying drugs and then bailing out.
Please keep me posted on your progress and your adventures in the world of gastric. Take care and keep trying ... there's a solution, I'm sure.
Hi, did you ever get better or at least a diagnosis?
Good luck everyone! If anyone has anymore good tips or advise, it will be more than appreciated!
It is kind of funny how common this problem is and yet everyone who goes through this has a very similar experience.
Endless trial and error with no real answers or assistance from physicians.I believe this problem is caused primarily by the preservatives, the GMO's, the BPA and all the other man made chemicals they've created to make our food taste better or last longer.
I hope that one day they are able to treat people of theses unbearable issues. I hope everyone here can find relief in some way and any helpful info on this matter would be appreciated
I definately understand all of your frustrations.
Good luck to you all - PLEASE keep us all posted if any of you get a miracle cure!'
Oh great, thanks for the update Maria! That does sound positive! I really do hope they get to the bottom of your husbands stomach problems!
I have never done this before on a site, Are you still suffering because I maybe able to help? or at least give you another idea that maybe you can check up on. It may have been covered I'm not sure but please reply if you want
Can you message me about your suggestions? Chronic gastritis sufferer, hpylori neg, clean diet, no stress, and PPIs cause pain, not help.
Did you find any answer or solution to your situation?
Next step he said is capsule camera! basically a tablet that you swallow that has a camera in it and takes images throughout its journey through your digestive system! amazing ay!
Now its another waiting game to wait for this appt to come through.
Will keep you all posted! the never ending journey continues!
Did is you ever take the aloe?
Sorry to read you are also suffering, its unbelievable how many people seem to have very simular syphtoms and also struggling for a diagnosis! Frightening really!
I hope you find some answers/relief soon also !
I've read through everyone's post and i'm so sorry to hear you are all going through immense pain or uncomfortable times.
Strange with all the technology, and continously people having these systom.
Sorry not much help and not saying that the out of places organs were the cause, nor that everyone else has the same, but maybe an option to bring up to your doctor. You never know.
Oh really! What relief that you have a diagnosis! thank you for sharing your story and keeping us informed.
good luck everyone really appreciate reading your comments
You were experiencing stomach/digestive problems after a broad spectrum antibiotic? What was your experience ?
You should ask your doctor for a blood test for coeliac disease. The link explains the test and also explains about coeliac disease.
take lunch (curd rice without salt for one week )if u hv peptic ulcer they will cure easily after one week and avoid spicy food ,tea,coffe and take food proper time
Never heard of curd rice and nowhere sells it. Never heard of an ulcer being cured in a week either.
take one week diet analysis, note that which day ur good stomach and note bad stomach day also find and list which diet ur taken bad and good finally ur analysis ur fit for which type of food and take that avoid others (i used pantoprazole40mg early morning empty stomach and take albendazole tablets400mg one day night for deworming and consult ur doctor about this drug } u told this problem after taking garlic so i think ur not fit for some food so analysis that food so avoid that ,any stress increse acid secretion (ur mind thing about this also increse acid secretion)
did u take any investigation related this proplem
I maybe able to suggest something if you are still suffering
Thank you for messaging. How interesting, did you feel unwell on a daily basis or was it intermitant?
Interesting that you say by stopping fizzy drinks helped you... has it stopped your syptoms all together?
However i am definately prepared to stop drinking the sprite if that helped you!
It is the most horrible thing in the world having something wrong with you and not knowing what it is and not having anything to make you feel better. It really does ruin your life as that is all you think about.
I will look forward to hearing from you regarding the above, and thanks again for sharing with me.
Yeah I think they tell you IBS because thats the only thing they can think of. Stomach issues are the worse. Keep your head up.
How long did it take from stopping drinking the fizzy for your syptoms to go away out of interst?
Yes they really are could literally be anything thats the problem
Sorry, I should clarify, if your daughter feels the same as me, deep breathing alone won't fix this as I'm sure you know ðŸ˜… good luck!
Anyway I still don't know exactly what the problem is but I am getting closer, so don't give up if you are still experiencing pain. In my experience most doctors don't listen and they will never spend as much time as you researching your symptoms. Because you are not dying anytime within the month, therefore you are not that high in their priority list. So you have to be your own advocate.
I am sorry to read that your son is suffering. As I am sure you have gathered from this thread and simular ones the problem is the symptoms we all seem to have literally could be caused by a list of things This is why it is so hard to diagnose!
Kept a food diary to see if it was food related
Went on a wheat and gluten free diet for a month
Cut out fizzy drinks
I recommend you try the above (on seperate occassions) to see if any of them help.
